#cinema #movie #coenbrothers #coen #destiny 

# ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

	 provavelmente segunda vez que vi, 31 de agosto de 2012

One single reason made me rewatch this film in order to make a proper review about it: I've seen that some people whose opinion I respect saying the [[Coen]] brothers are overrated. Well, I don't think they are overrated, I just think people admire them for the wrong reasons. People use to refer to the dialogues in their films as "cool" when in fact they are indeed profound and intelligent, and "intelligent" things are often very different from "cool" things.

This is, in my opinion, the greatest work of the [[Coen brothers]]. <i>No Country for Old Men</i> is a film about the randomness of [[destiny]] and the inability to deal with it whether you are an experienced person or not. Or if you prefer, <i>No Country for Old Men</i> is about the innocence of the idea of maturity itself. That's why the film starts with an old sheriff talking about the old times, when people didn't need to use guns. He is concerned that now violence is in every corner and he feels he can't handle with it. He is, in fact, trying to make sense of things as he used to do when he was a kid.

The story has three different protagonists and they never really meet each other. Josh Brolin lives Llewelyn Moss, the typical Texan man, with the special ability to be always alert and prevented, he studies every single step he'll take, he plains every further action carefully. Tommy Lee Jones is, again, a Texan sheriff. In this story, he is the mediating element, he is the one trying to make things happen <i>as they "should" do</i>, he is some kind of anti-entropy element of the plot. Javier Barden is the psychopath (really?) Anton Chigurh, a person "with no sense of humor". In fact, Chigurh is the entropy of the story, he is the ruthless, unpredictable and mortal element of fate, that's why the sheriff refers to him as "rather a ghost" and he'll never get him.

Although Moss is a veteran from Vietnam, alert, prevented and intelligent, trying making everything to escape, he can't run from the unpredictable because he can only be prevented for that he can preview - obviously. That's why he'd never be able to escape from Chigurh. Contemporary philosophy (and I'm referring specially people like Edgar Moran) say that the only thing capable of really changing one's destiny is the unpredictable, like the meteor that once destroyed the dinosaurs or the fusion of two protons giving birth to the Helium that later with construct our whole universe. Chigurh is exactly this element and there is nothing you can do to make it stop, you can only put some faith on luck, and he gives you the chance to do so by throwing a coin to the air "there's nothing more I can do", he says.

In Coen's cannon they're often using the negotiation as a element capable of structure the human society (remember <i>Fargo</i>, the constant and frustrated negotiations of Jerry Lundegaard, or in <i>True Grit</i> where the negotiations always precede the shooting, etc) but it's impossible to negotiate with the unpredictable evil, it's hopeless to run away from it, you just have to learn how to live accepting that not every thing is under your control. Much more than a reconstruction of the western genre, <i>No Country for Old Men</i> is the placement of this arid reality in the entropy of real life, where even the more talented and prevented can fail if they're out of luck.

In the end, sheriff Ed Tom Bell goes to his father home to say he is going to retire. He complains about the evilness of the world and his impotency to deal with it, but his father only says that this evil was always there and gives him the lesson that it's better to learn how to accept the unpredictable than to fight against it.

Every single time Chigurh appears you know something bad is going to happen. His force can be felt every time and by everyone not only because Javier Baden made a wonderful job, but also because the character itself holds the one of the biggest mysteries in life. Destiny has all the weapons (Chigurh never have to look after it, he always have weapons in his hands) and all you can do is to accept it, there is no such a thing as maturity.